0. John suggested reading the Moggi paper and the Wadler theorems for
free paper.

Goal: look specifically at state monad and write operational semantics for it

1. Wrote down implementation of StateT

    type StateT s m a = s -> m (s, a)

    runStateT :: StateT s m a -> s -> m (s, a)
    runStateT m s = m s

    lift :: m a -> StateT s m a
    lift m = \s -> m >>= \x -> return (s, x)

2. Attempt to write down two-language system with 'run' and 'lift'

    Problem: Which language does the state handled by run go?  Deian
    advocated state in target language, which was to be manipulated
    using 'getTCB' and 'setTCB'.  Edward advocated state in a
    meta-language, since by analogy to a Haskell interpreter running our
    system, the state of the target language is not defined by the IFC
    language but in the metalanguage.  However, both of these approaches
    do not work, because it is easy to break type-safety by replacing
    the store with something with the wrong locations.

3. Decision: 'run' should not be included in language, we should just
have 'fork'.  Edward advocates fork in the target language (introduces
E_Σ notation for evaluation context with runtime state).

    Problem: ...

4. Deian argues for fork in the source language.  We now consider the issue
of type-safety in this system.  Typing contexts are with respect to well-typed
contexts.  The store-condition is proposed for well-typedness.

    Problem: Calls to target language must have store, but this should not
    be in surface syntax.

5. Deian observes that my system always is rooted in a red execution
context, so we move the language state back to the outside.  Now calls
from source language to target language do not need state annotation,
because it appeals to the local-global context.  Fork moves back to IFC
language using the store-condition, and the surface syntax problem goes
away.

    Note: What is the monadic interpretation of this?

6. Brief consideration whether or not control effects cause problems;
intuitively they should not, because we can always arrange for state to
be top-level (by partitioning), even if the "monadic structure" is
different.
